---
layout: post
title: Can't Hurt Me, David Goggins;
tags:
- Book-Review
- Blog
---

As a part of one-month reading challenge, I read this this amazing book ‘Can’t hurt me : Master Your Mind and Defy the Odds ‘ by David Goggins.
It is not just an autobiography, it’s a witness of how one can train their mind and body to achieve the impossible. Goggins talks about his transcending journey of becoming one of the fittest athletes of America. Over the eleven chapters he talks about his traumatic childhood with a dictator father, helpless mother, poverty and prejudice to his journey of becoming a Navy SEAL by defying all the odds and mastering his mind to become one of the toughest people (Mothe*** - to put in his words :P ) on this planet. Goggin’s story is real, raw and intense and you can experience this from the very first chapter.

I am not a big fan of self-help books. I beleive everyone’s thought process different and unique in its own way and there are no rules by which you can lead your life. But the fact that one can achieve anything by hard work and training their mind is something I cannot deny (Yes, easier said than done). David Goggin’s story proves this (MULTIPLE TIMES).

An excerpt from the book (one of my favourites) -

“It won’t always go your way, so you can’t get trapped in this idea that just because you’ve imagined a possibility for yourself that you somehow deserve it. Your entitled mind is dead weight. Cut it loose. Don’t focus on what you think you deserve. Take aim on what you are willing to earn!”

The interesting part about this book is the challenges given by Goggins at the end of every chapter. The challenges are like take-aways or learnings that one can mindfully apply in their life. One of the techniques that caught my attention is the cookie jar technique. A cookie jar - as exciting as the name sounds is a place where you put all things good and bad that has shaped you, the lessons you’ve learnt and the obstacles you’ve endured and overcome. Whenever you are hungry for some motivation, reach out to your cookie jar. It is a reminder of the time when you didn’t give up or the time you dealt with an ugly situation in the most graceful way. It could be the time you did an extra push-up in the gym or studied overnight to pass your exam. Take a cookie, relish it and put it back. Cookie jar is a reminder of how amazing you are!

Spoilers ahead! You can have a congenital heart issue and yet run a 100mile marathon, set world record and be one of the toughest men in the military. YES! Goggins did it all. This is more than a self-help or a motivational book. Motivation drawn by books and movies are ephemeral (Goggins agrees with this). This book gives you a chance to view challenges with a fresh set of eyes, it teaches you to embrace the vulnerabilities and find strength in them, and see this world with a different perspective.

The audio book (plus podcast) version of the book is available on Play Store.