---
layout: post
title: APIs - What and How?
tags:
- Technical
---

API (Application Program Interface) is a set of protocols that allows communication between a server and users or two programs. It is used to interact with application located on some remote servers.

When we make an API call - it is called a request In return, we get a response.

Often, we use an API key along with the request which authenticates the program/user making a request. You can query public APIs directly and they don’t need API keys or tokens. The very common format of the API response is JSON.

JSON is an easy way of storing/formatting data. You store in the form of key, value pairs.

The popular API operations are -

GET: To fetch some data POST: To add/create some data PUT: To update data DELETE: To remove data

Let’s say you build a software and a friend of yours is interested in your application. But he doesn’t have the “technical” knowledge needed to understand your software. For that matter, a lot of people wouldn’t understand the technicalities behind your application. Here is when APIs come into picture, you can build APIs to let the external users access your application.

Here’s a popular Chuck Norris Joke API.

Request :

GET https://api.chucknorris.io/jokes/random GET https://api.chucknorris.io/jokes&category=career

API operation : GET Protocol: https hostname: api.chuck-norris.io API end point : /jokes/random /jokes

Request Parameter : catergory=career

Response :

{
	"categories":[],
	"created_at":"2020-01-05 13:42:29.296379",
	"icon_url":"https://assets.chucknorris.host/img/avatar/chuck-norris.png",
	"id":"j36rItsWRNupLcycKdRLZQ","updated_at":"2020-01-05 13:42:29.296379",
    "url":"https://api.chucknorris.io/jokes/j36rItsWRNupLcycKdRLZQ",
	"value":"Chuck Norris carries a list it's simple. 1.Kill and kill somemore"
}
Response is in the form of JSON.

Another popular Meme API

Request :

 http://apimeme.com/meme?meme=Advice-Doge&top=Oh&bottom=APIs+are+easy+to+understand
http - protocol apimeme.com - hostname /meme - api end point

Request parameters : meme=Advice-Doge top=Oh botton=APIs are easy to understand

Response is something like this 

Here are some interesting APIs you can work with -

1) Twitter API 2) Google Maps API 3) CoWin API